---
title: "WS2812"
linkTitle: "WS2812"
nodateline: true
weight: 3
---

We all love colorful blinking LEDs, right? There's a simple API for
accessing the five individually addressable RGB LEDs on the Badge's
kite. The API is found inside a separate ESP-IDF compontent
`ws2812` that is intended as a [git submodule]
(https://github.com/badgeteam/esp32-component-ws2812). If you started
your app development from the [template app]
(https://github.com/badgeteam/mch2022-template-app), it should be
already set up.

There's a sixth RGB LED on the board (next to the top corner of 
the display). This LED is controlled via the ICE40 FPGA (see its
driver for details).

The LEDs are WS2812-compatible. If you're not already familiar with
these LEDs: Each LED contains red, green and blue LED and a tiny
controller that receives 24 bit RGB data from a single serial data
line. Further data bits are pushed through to its data output, which
is connected to the next LED. This allows many LEDs in a string to 
be individually controlled.

The LED power supply is switched (together with the SD card).
Before using the LEDs, set IO19 (GPIO_SD_PWR) to 1.

Before controlling the LEDs, the driver has to be set up with
the data line connected to the LEDs (`GPIO_LED_DATA`). If you
want to control other WS2812 LEDs (e.g. connected to one of the 
extension connectors), you can specify a different value.

Setting the LEDs is pretty straightforward: Set up an array of
15 unsigned brightness values (R,G,B for 5 LEDs).

A minimal example to set all LEDs to red:

```
  uint8_t red[] = {0,255,0,0,255,0,0,255,0,0,255,0,0,255,0};
  // turn on LED power
  gpio_set_direction(GPIO_SD_PWR, GPIO_MODE_OUTPUT);
  gpio_set_level(GPIO_SD_PWR, 1);
  // initialize WS2812 driver to the appropriate data pin
  ws2812_init(GPIO_LED_DATA);
  ws2812_send_data(red, sizeof(red));
```

To animate, change the array values and repeat `ws2812_send_data`
in regular intervals.

